it turns out the vast majority of people
with low back pain do not need surgery
acute low back pain or a little back
pain for less than three months or so
will improve on its own no matter what
you do and 90% or more of cases as a
result we take a relatively hands-off
approach to a cute little back pain we
tend to avoid getting unnecessary
imaging of the spine we encourage people
to avoid bed rest we encourage activity
and sometimes physical therapy often
times will recommend anti-inflammatory
drugs but we really don't encourage
surgery for a cute little backing that's
because one it's not necessary and two
it doesn't work our job is to make sure
that there's not anything harmful going
on make sure you don't have a disc
herniation that's pressing on a nerve
those kinds of things do get better with
surgery but back pain that kind of waxes
and wanes generally doesn't get better
with surgery and most of the time we
want to teach people to take care of
themselves so that they know what to do
so that they don't need to come in and
be dependent on somebody else taking
care of them better if you know what to
do for yourself so you can take care of
it without having to come in to the
hospital or the doctor's office and most
of the time most back pain is actually
treatable symptom management that's what
we're doing we're making you feel better
so your body can get better by itself
for patients with back pain and no leg
pain very few of those patients need
surgery in fact I'd say none of those
business need surgery there may be a
very small minority for whom surgery
would lead to a better outcome than
non-operative treatment but again it's
very hard for us to predict who those
patients might be for patients who have
back pain then developed pain radiating
down their leg any numbness or weakness
in their legs those are all signs and
symptoms of nerve compression those are
patients who might benefit from surgery
they're also the type of patients when
they see their primary care doctor if
those are the symptoms they're having
it's appropriate to get an MRI in that
situation so we can document and
diagnose where the nerve compression is
occurring and try to determine your
surgery would make make sense I think
people have a misconception that we can
do more than we can sometimes in
medicine and you can put people on the
moon and we can send spaceships to Mars
but how come we can't make our back pain
better or why isn't there something
fancy and snazzy that that we can do to
make it better and you know it's it's
interesting but most of the time you
have the power to make yourself better
and that's pretty cool when you think
about it this healthy high light is
brought to you by Dartmouth Hitchcock in
Ledyard National Bank working together
with our community partners to improve
your well-being
you